HZ University of Applied Sciences 
Data Driven Business (CU75072V2) 
DATA DRIVEN BUSINESS 
Lars de Bruijne, Joeri Harreman  
02/01/2026 – 02/28/2026 
 
1 | P a g e  
 
Abstract 
This report examines how the magical institution of Hogwarts can become data driven. 
We combine theoretical and practical data analysis. First, this study explores core 
principles of data driven decision making, where we cover data literacy, culture, and 
governance. Then it analyzes the quality of a provided student dataset using data quality 
dimensions such as accuracy, completeness, consistency, and timeliness. Furthermore, we 
identify data quality issues, and the report discusses improvements and prevention 
methods, all of this to enhance data reliability. Finally, we lay out a strategy for 
Hogwarts, outlining objectives, steps, challenges timeline, resource allocation, and 
success metrics. The report demonstrates that becoming data driven requires 
technological solutions, strong governance and ethical responsibility.  
2 | P a g e  
 
Table Of Contents 
Abstract ............................................................................................................................... 1 
1. Introduction ................................................................................................................. 3 
2. What is data driven?.................................................................................................... 4 
2.1. Data Driven Concepts ............................................................................................. 4 
2.2. Pros and cons of being data driven ......................................................................... 5 
2.3. GDPR ...................................................................................................................... 6 
2.4. GDPR Implications ................................................................................................. 7 
2.5. Ethical and Legal Challenges of GDPR .................................................................. 8 
3. Data Analysis / Results ............................................................................................... 9 
3.1. Explanation and consideration ................................................................................ 9 
Data Consistency .................................................................................................... 13 
Data Timeliness ....................................................................................................... 15 
3.2. Data quality report of the data .............................................................................. 17 
4. How can Hogwarts become data driven ................................................................... 20 
4.1. Vision and objectives ............................................................................................ 20 
4.2. Data driven strategy for Hogwarts ........................................................................ 20 
4.3. Implementation steps ............................................................................................ 22 
4.4. Challenges, risks, and trade-offs ........................................................................... 23 
4.5. Timeline and phases .............................................................................................. 24 
4.6. Resource allocation ............................................................................................... 24 
4.7. Metrics of success ................................................................................................. 25 
4.8. Summary ............................................................................................................... 25 
5. Conclusion ................................................................................................................ 26 
6. References ................................................................................................................. 28 
 
  
3 | P a g e  
 
1. Introduction 
Recently organizations have relied more on data to support their decision making. Data 
driven business doesn’t rely only on expertise and intuitiveness, they use evidence-based 
insights to improve performance, efficiency, and strategic alignment. Becoming data 
driven is not only collecting data, but it also demands a high quality, strong governance, 
data literacy, and ethical responsibility.  
In this report we focus on the concept of being a data driven business. We apply this to a 
fictional case, based on Harry Potter, where the magical institution becomes data driven. 
This fictional setting allowed us to make concepts that applied in a clear and accessible 
way while still addressing real-world problems. 
The report is structured in a way where we first talk about the concept of data driven 
businesses, talking about key principles, advantages, and drawbacks. We followed this up 
by examining the legal and ethical implications of data usage, keeping the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) in mind. Furthermore, we were provided with a dataset 
that we analyzed and discussed the quality dimensions of the dataset itself. We build on 
the findings the quality report presented us, and with these findings we made a strong 
strategy covering a clear vision, implementation steps, risk analysis, timelines, resource 
allocation, and metrics for success. 
Combining theory and data quality analysis, this report forms a whole and demonstrates 
relevance of data driven practices for organizations. We highlighted that data driven 
transformation is not only technical but also organizational and ethical challenging.  
  
Commented [jh1]: Also make after full draft of paper to 
ensure the quality and specificity if the content in the 
introduction 
 
4 | P a g e  
 
2. What is data driven? 
In today’s business environments we often hear the term “data driven”, it is used to 
describe businesses or organizations that are making use of evidence-based decision 
making. These businesses rely on analysis of data to guide them in their choices, rather 
than personal experience, intuition or tradition (Mucci, 2025). To achieve this, businesses 
make use of different concepts with the data they have. These concepts will be discussed 
in next subchapter. 
2.1. Data Driven Concepts 
There are many different concepts of data-driven, but first we will start off with covering 
the concept of data-driven decision-making. Businesses use data or data sources to guide 
decision-making processes. By gathering data from sources such as customer feedback, 
performance metrics, and market trends, you can identify patterns, predict trends, and 
make decisions based on concrete evidence. This way you can reduce uncertainty by 
providing objective foundation on which to base decisions (Yasmina, 2025).  
While the data-driven decision-making approach guides the businesses on how to use the 
data, it won’t fully work if it doesn’t fit with the company’s culture. A data driven culture 
describes how a company works from the inside out. To support a data driven culture, 
there is a high level of transparency, making most of the data available for the staff (we 
say “most”, since confidential data like personal information, should not be available for 
everyone.). In the end this will result in a more streamlined workflow to decide your day-
to-day tasks (Foote, 2024). To create a data driven culture, everyone must be involved 
within the organization. Business leaders must describe proposals with supporting facts, 
so that there can be evidence-based actions. A common misconception is that you must 
separate the data-scientist. Analytics and business context goes hand in hand, which 
requires data specialists to be integrated into the work floor, alongside other roles to 
support the decision making (Waller, 2020).  
Furthermore, we have components like data literacy, this is also one very important 
component for a company that is becoming data driven. Data literacy is the ability to 
explore, understand, and communicate with data in a meaningful way (Data Literacy 
Explained: Definition, Importance, Examples, and More, N.d.). This means that within 
the company everyone should be able to comprehend the data correctly. It doesn’t mean 
that they should be able to have advanced skills, but that they are able to ask questions or 
use the data to support their decisions. If there is no data literacy integrated within the 
company the employees could misunderstand the data or use the data for poor decision-
making. To ensure this is integrated correctly companies should invest in data training to 
make sure that the employees use the data correctly and that they are aligned with the 
business objectives. 
5 | P a g e  
 
One of the last parts of becoming data driven is viewing your data as a strategic asset. If 
you are viewing your data as an asset, it is treated as one. This means that your data is 
managed, protected, and leveraged in a very similar way to other valuable resources such 
as finances and human capital. In this part you make sure that the data quality, 
accessibility, and data governance is set in a correct way so it can be reliable for decision-
making (Team, 2023).  
The last data driven concept we will cover is the concept of actionable insights. The 
actionable insights refer to the data findings, and the use of it. Actionable insights are 
data findings that can be translated into actions or decisions. If your company is just 
simply collecting data and analysing it, it is not sufficient. For data to be actionable, it 
must be relevant, timely, and very clearly communicated to the decision-makers. So 
basically, you combine data analysis with business context to make sure that insights 
answer business questions. Without these insights businesses are becoming rich in data 
but poor in insights, this limits the practical value of being data driven (Integrate.Io, 
2025).  
2.2.  Pros and cons of being data driven 
Now that we have covered all the concepts of a data driven business, let’s discuss the 
pros and cons of being data driven. 
Being data driven offers several advantages for businesses. Benefits like improving 
decision-making are one of the biggest. Since all the decisions are based on objective 
information rather than intuition, it makes it more reliable without any subjective bias. It 
also makes the efficiency of the businesses better; this is because data driven businesses 
can identify trends earlier. This creates a more consistent and transparent decision-
making process. If all the concepts of data driven business are combined, it will lead to a 
better alignment withing the business, this strategic alignment will develop into long-term 
business value (GoPractice, 2022). 
However, becoming data driven can bring along some challenges. Having all the data is 
not everything you can not lean on the data only; it requires a human touch. There is a 
risk of blind trust where the employees can ignore their own expertise. Becoming data 
driven also requires investment, you need certain technology, training and cultural 
change. All of this can lead to a time-consuming job and can be very costly. 
In practice, this means that the businesses need to balance the data with their business 
context. They need to invest in literacy training, high data-quality, and change their 
culture actively. If all these components are aligned, only then can a business become and 
benefit from being data driven.  
  
6 | P a g e  
 
2.3. GDPR 
The GDPR is set up as a regulation for Data Protection. Within this regulation the rules 
are laid out regarding the protection and the processing of personal data with regards to 
natural persons as well as rules relating to the free movement of personal data. 
Regulation also protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural people with the 
focus on protecting personal data. The following sub-chapters are taken from General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and reference the rules as accurately as possible. 
Lawfulness, Fairness, and Transparency 
As stipulated in Article 5 of the GDPR, personal data must be processed lawfully, fairly, 
and transparently in relation to the data subject. Lawful processing requires adherence to 
specific rules set out by the regulation. For instance, processing is lawful if 
(DataScientest, 2023): 
1. The data subject has given explicit consent for one or more specific purposes. 
2. The processing is necessary for the performance of a contract involving the data 
subject or to take steps requested by the data subject before entering a contract. 
3. The processing is required to comply with a legal obligation to which the 
controller is subject. 
4. It is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or another natural 
person. 
5. The processing supports a task carried out in the public interest or the exercise of 
official authority vested in the controller. 
Purpose Limitation 
Personal data must be collected for specific, explicit, and legitimate purposes and not 
processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes. Essentially this means that 
organizations are not allowed to use data for reasons beyond what they have stated for the 
initial purpose, unless they obtain more data consensually. 
Data Minimization 
The principle of data minimization ensures that only data that is adequate, relevant, and 
limited to what is necessary for the intended purpose is collected. Organizations must 
avoid collecting excessive data, which helps reduce privacy risks and simplifies 
compliance efforts. 
Accuracy 
Under GDPR, personal data must be accurate and kept up to date where necessary. If data 
is found to be inaccurate, it must be corrected or deleted promptly. Organizations are 
responsible for maintaining the accuracy of the data they process, ensuring it remains 
reliable and fit for its intended purpose. 
7 | P a g e  
 
Storage Limitation 
Personal data should not be retained for longer than is necessary to fulfil the purposes for 
which it was collected. Once the data is no longer needed, it must be securely deleted or 
anonymized. This principle prevents organizations from holding onto data indefinitely, 
reducing risks associated with data breaches and ensuring compliance. 
Integrity and Confidentiality 
Personal data must be processed in a manner that guarantees its security. This includes 
protecting the data from unauthorized or unlawful processing, as well as accidental loss, 
destruction, or damage. To uphold this principle, organizations must implement 
appropriate technical and organizational measures such as encryption, firewalls, and 
employee training. 
2.4. GDPR Implications 
 
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has totally redefined global data 
protection which has impacted individuals, businesses, and governments. They have done 
this by creating a culture that is transparent and holds accountability in data handling. 
The following is taken from Sartor et al. (2020), which is an official document where 
they discuss the impact of general data protection and the role of the government. 
Impact on Individuals 
GDPR reinforces the rights of individuals, providing greater control over their personal 
data and safeguarding privacy. Key rights include: 
• Right to Access: Individuals can request copies of their personal data to ensure 
transparency. 
• Right to Be Forgotten: Individuals may demand the deletion of their data when it 
is no longer necessary for processing purposes. 
These provisions empower users, offering transparency and control while obligating 
organizations to adhere to ethical data practices. 
Impact on Businesses 
Businesses face strict requirements under GDPR, including: 
• Obtaining explicit consent for data collection and processing. 
• Maintaining detailed records of processing activities. 
• Implementing robust security measures such as encryption. 
8 | P a g e  
 
Non-compliance is heavily penalized, with fines of up to €20 million or 4% of global 
annual turnover. Consequently, organizations invest significantly in compliance, 
encompassing: 
• Employee training programs. 
• Advanced technological solutions. 
• Process refinement to meet regulatory standards. 
 
Role of Governments 
Governments enforce GDPR through Data Protection Authorities (DPAs), which oversee 
compliance, investigate complaints, and impose penalties for violations. GDPR’s success 
has influenced other nations to adopt similar privacy legislation, solidifying its role as a 
global benchmark for data protection. 
2.5. Ethical and Legal Challenges of GDPR 
While GDPR offers a robust framework for data protection, its implementation brings 
forth ethical and legal challenges for both businesses and governments. This part is also 
copied from (Sartor et al., 2020b) 
Balancing Personalization and Privacy 
The increasing reliance on personalized services, such as targeted advertising, raises 
ethical concerns. For example, companies like Facebook have faced criticism for utilizing 
personal data without sufficient user awareness, highlighting the tension between 
enhancing user experience and respecting privacy rights. 
Cross-Border Compliance Issues 
Multinational companies often encounter conflicting legal requirements. GDPR applies to 
all entities managing EU citizens' data, yet it may conflict with regulations like the U.S. 
CLOUD Act, which mandates data sharing with U.S. authorities. Such inconsistencies 
complicate compliance for global firms, as evidenced by Meta’s record-breaking €1.2 
billion fine in 2023 for inadequately safeguarding EU citizen data during cross-border 
transfers. 
Disproportionate Burden on Small Businesses 
Small businesses and startups often struggle to meet GDPR requirements due to limited 
resources. The financial and operational demands, such as hiring Data Protection Officers 
and implementing secure systems, can disadvantage smaller entities compared to well-
funded corporations. 
9 | P a g e  
 
Real-Life Example 
In 2018, British Airways experienced a big data breach that compromised the personal 
and financial information of over 400,000 customers. The UK's Information 
Commissioner's Office (ICO) investigated the incident and found that British Airways 
had violated several requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) [1]. 
Specifically, the ICO determined that the airline had failed to implement appropriate 
technical and organizational measures to protect customer data, as required under GDPR 
Article 32 (Hossain et al., 2024). This failure allowed attackers to access personal data 
without authorization, violating GDPR Article 5(1)(f), which mandates that personal data 
be processed in a manner that ensures its security (Davenport, 2006). 
The ICO's investigation revealed that British Airways had not detected the breach for 
more than two months, indicating insufficient monitoring of its systems (McAfee & 
Brynjolfsson, 2012). Additionally, the airline lacked sufficient security measures, such as 
multi-factor authentication and robust password management, which could have 
prevented unauthorized access. These insufficiencies highlighted a lack of due diligence 
in protecting customer data, as required by the GDPR. 
Initially, in July 2019, the ICO announced its intention to fine British Airways £183 
million for these violations (Varian, H. 2018). However, after considering representations 
from the airline and the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the ICO reduced 
the fine to £20 million in October 2020. This case undermines the critical importance of 
adhering to GDPR requirements and implementing robust security measures to protect 
personal data (Hossain et al., 2024). 
3. Data Analysis / Results 
A high standard of quality for data is essential. Data driven decisions are made based on 
correct data, poor quality data can lead to wrong insights and operational inefficiencies. 
Organizations use data governance to ensure data is maintained. This causes the data to 
be more dependable This ensures that decisions are based on information that can be 
trusted. 
The quality of data is checked using 7 components like: accuracy, completeness, 
consistency, timeliness, validity, reliability, and integrity. These components make sure 
that data is trustworthy and effective for decision making. 
3.1. Explanation and consideration 
The following section will explain each aspect of the seven key data quality dimensions with 
a definition, a real-life world example as well as ways to prevent poor data quality.  
Data Accuracy 
When talking about data accuracy we mainly focus on correctness of the data and if the 
data has its true or intended value. If we had to summarise what data accuracy is, we would 
10 | P a g e  
 
say that we are looking if the information about an event or object is correctly being 
reflected in the data. If data accuracy is not being handled correctly and any errors, 
discrepancies or inconsistencies in the data are not being fixed or flagged then that can 
lead to misguided decisions due to the accuracy of data not being the same as their true or 
intended value. To measure this dimension, you can look at the error ratio as well as the 
deviation of the dataset (Porter, 2025) (ClearPoint Strategy, 2019) (Data Quality Feature 
Comparison Guide - ADS, n.d.) 
 
Example: 
For a real-world example, we chose PostNL. PostNL stores data regarding track and trace. 
PostNL uses a track and trace function so that the customer is up to date on the location of 
their package, and they know thanks to the track and trace function when their package will 
be delivered.  
Unfortunately, the track and trace function does not always work as intended. According to 
a spokesperson of PostNL the track and trace problems are known and according to him or 
her this only occurs during the busy Christmas period. The problem that PostNL faces is 
that the packages are scanned at the preparation site before they are delivered. At the end 
of the route for the mail man he or she says that he or she is done with delivering packages 
and then the customer gets the notification that their package is delivered however this is 
not the case if the package did not even reach the mailman. Due to the high number of 
packages, the mailman could simply have ran out of room to take the packages with them 
and because the packages are scanned beforehand the “forgotten” packages are still being 
marked as delivered whilst being left behind at PostNL. (“PostNL Zegt ‘pakket Bezorgd’, 
Maar Jij Hebt Niks Ontvangen: Hoe Kan Dat?,” 2024)  
Without checking the accuracy of the data regarding the status of the packages. The 
customer may not receive their package due to it not being delivered at all, resulting in an 
unhappy customer that does not get his or her package and even potential financial loss.  
How to Prevent Accuracy Issues 
Automated validation rules 
There are multiple ways to prevent the loss of data accuracy. One of these preventions is 
the use of automated validation rules. When using automated validation rules, we 
implement input validation to prevent typos and incorrect formulas.  
An example of automated validation rules is the usage of requiring postal codes to follow 
the correct pattern. When listing your postal code in the Netherlands we follow the 
standard of 4 numbers followed by 2 letters. A good use of automated validation rules in 
this situation would be to check whether the receiver of a package adheres to the Dutch 
postal codes by validating if the postal code that he or she has written down in the correct 
order for the package, starting with 4 numbers and ending with 2 letters. Only when the 
condition of the combination of letters and numbers has been validated will the data be 
used for the package. 
11 | P a g e  
 
Data verification process 
Another way to prevent the loss of data accuracy is the use of data verification processes. 
Data verification processes cross checks critical data against external sources to make 
sure the data is complete and accurate.  
An example of data verification processes is the bank using your government ID to validate 
if a loan can be taken out in your name. The bank or financial institution uses the external 
source of your government ID to validate if the person who is taking out the loan is the same 
person as who the bank account belongs to. By using the cross-check for critical data 
against external sources the chances of data being inaccurate becomes less common.  
Audits & Reviews 
The last way to prevent accuracy issues is to have regular audits and reviews. When having 
an audit or review of your data you have a periodic data quality assessment to find out if 
there are any errors, discrepancies or inconsistencies in your data and if there are any you 
can then fix them.  
An example of audits and reviews would be having a quarterly meeting with the team and 
look over the old data as well as the newly added data that was gathered over the last 
quarter. The advantage of having audits or reviews is that at the end of the day there could 
still be gaps in your system due to human error or a system error. By having audits or 
reviews you make sure that even if there are inaccuracies, you catch the errors and fix these 
so that your data is accurate for future use.  
Data Completeness 
Data completeness is the dimension that checks if enough information is available in a 
dataset to draw a conclusion or have the necessary information for a specific purpose. 
When the dataset is missing data or missing values you could create gaps in your analysis. 
The consequence of gaps in your analysis is misinformed strategies. To make sure that data 
completeness is achieved the metric of percentage of data records that contain all needed 
information can be used to check the quality of your data.  
Example: 
An example of incomplete data may be a hospital patient record that is missing critical 
information, such as a complete allergy history, missing data regarding previous doctor 
visits or even missing information regarding a medical operation that previously took place. 
 In 2025 the Federatie Medische Specialisten (FMS) gathered answers from a survey that 
was filled in by 1100 doctors in the Netherlands. 97 percent of medical specialists say that 
patients are at risk due to their digital patient files not being properly communicated 
between different departments of sometimes even the same hospital. 300 doctors who 
have taken the survey say that they see the risks of incomplete data daily (Zurhake & 
Zurhake, 2025).  
If data is not correctly entered or communicated the result may be incorrect treatment 
decisions and a consequence of this could be medical complications.  As seen in the 
example data completeness is important to draw conclusions.  
12 | P a g e  
 
How to Prevent Completeness Issues 
Mandatory Fields 
A good way of preventing the issue when it comes to data completeness is mandatory 
fields. Mandatory fields are essential fields that must be filled in so that the quality of data 
is correct. When talking about mandatory fields think of an email address or a phone 
number. These fields cannot be left out during data entry as these types of information are 
crucial to have data completeness. So, to make sure that these types of data are not left 
out by accident or on purpose you make them mandatory to be filled out.  
Automated completeness checks 
Another prevention type is automated completeness checks. Automated completeness 
checks are implemented systems that flag missing values and request the user to provide 
necessary information to be filled in. The use of automated completeness checks is to 
ensure the flow of data is monitored without leaving room for errors as this ensures that you 
can automatically check and prevent the incompleteness of the data and being one step 
ahead of potential poor data quality so that you do not  have to deal with the impact of 
incomplete data further down the line. Automated completeness checks also reduce the 
need of manual intervention and having to constantly oversee the process manually 
(Bodenstein, 2024).  
An example of automated completeness checks could be a field turning red for a field that 
is missing information when filling out an application form for a new job. By flagging the 
area that has not been filled in yet you make the user conscious of the lack of data 
completeness and as a result you have them fill in the missing information which leads to 
data completeness.  
 An example of automated completeness checks could be a field turning red for a field that 
is missing information when filling out an application form for a new job. By flagging the 
area that has not been filled in yet you make the user conscious of the lack of data 
completeness and as a result you have them fill in the missing information which leads to 
data completeness.  
Data enrichment 
Finally, another way to prevent completeness issues is to have data enrichment 
techniques. Data enrichment techniques focus on enhancing existing data by adding 
valuable information from internal and external sources. The basics of data enrichment is 
transforming in this case incomplete data into complete data. Data enrichment is done by 
combining your own existing data with additional data that add context, depth and insight 
to your dataset. The process of data enrichment is as follows:  
Firstly, data is collected from various sources such as public databases, then the data is 
matched using a unique identifier such as a personal phone number or in the instance of 
Dutch data a Burger Service Nummer could also be used as this is a unique identifier for 
every citizen of the Netherlands. The following step is data appending. Data appending is 
used to fill the gaps in the data set using existing records. After data appending the data is 
validated to make sure the data that has been added is accurate in accordance with your 
13 | P a g e  
 
own existing data. The last step in data enrichment is the integration.  At this step you add 
the enriched data that you have collected to your existing data. 
An example for data enrichment could be that the current data set of a provider has basic 
information about the users of a streaming service. The provider has the basic information 
about the user such as their telephone number, name and email address. By enriching the 
data that they currently with for instance the user's social media profiles, online 
behavioural patterns as well as demographic details the information about a user of the 
streaming service becomes complete data. By using data enrichment for data 
completeness in this example the provider can enhance the user experience with better 
tailored films and or series specifically chosen for the user (SalesPlay, 2025). 
Data Consistency 
Data consistency ensures that data remains the same across different databases or 
systems. The main goal of data consistency is that there are no contradictions or 
inconstancies when looking at two of the same values across different datasets. If there 
were to be inconsistencies across databases that could lead to misunderstandings or 
mistakes when data is integrated.  
To accurately measure the consistency of your data the following metrics can be used: 
range, variance and standard deviation.  (Porter, 2025) 
 
Real-World Example:  
On June 17th of 2025 António Guterres, the U.N. secretary-general released the annual 
report on children and armed conflicts. In this report it was stated that the global body 
verified “the killing of 1259 Palestinian children-662 boys, 597 girls” in Gaza “and the 
process of attribution is ongoing.” The United Nations also had received reports regarding 
the deaths of an additional 4,470 children in the Gaza Strip in 2024. However, the additional 
deaths were pending verification at the time of the publication of this report.  
The following day on June 18th of 2025 the United Nations Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) released a “reported impact shot” of Gaza where it was 
stated that 15,613 children were killed in the Gaza Strip since October 7th of 2023. The 
original difference between these stated statistics is approximately 92% when comparing 
the OCHA report and the report made by the secretary-general Guterres. 
 The difference when looking at these statistics that should be taken in consideration is that 
the OCHA report statistic is based on the total number of children killed in Gaza since 
October 7th of 2023 whereas the report of the secretary general Guterres covers the year of 
2024.  
If at the time of publication, the “pending” verification of the additional 4,470 children 
would be taken into the calculation of the difference in percentage per report, then the 
report of the secretary-general Guterres would cover approximately 37% of the total that is 
mentioned in the report made by OCHA. 
14 | P a g e  
 
As seen in the example above the consistency of data is crucial when it comes to the 
quality of data. Whereas this example has a lot of grey areas due to the income of the data it 
is still clear that the data that is being collected and used is not consistent within the whole 
of the United Nations. The consequences of inconsistent data within a business or 
organisation may lead to misinformation or misunderstandings of the presented data as is 
concluded from the reports that were published by the United Nations regarding the data 
collected about Gaza.  (Wagenheim, 2025) (Reported Impact Snapshot | Gaza Strip (18 
June 2025) | United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs - 
Occupied Palestinian Territory, 2025) 
 
How to Prevent Consistency Issues: 
Centralized data governance 
If data is coming from multiple sources which are not commonly shared or communicated 
within departments of a business or organisation, data inconsistency is a natural 
consequence of these actions. With a centralised data governance, a single source of data 
or information is established so that all departments use the same data.  
An example of Centralised data governance would be to use a shared work calendar that is 
shared amongst a team where the leader or boss publishes the schedules instead of 
handing out each team member a personal schedule. By using a single source of 
information, the chances of misunderstandings are reduced.  
Data standardization protocols 
Another example to prevent inconsistencies within data is the use of data standardization 
protocols. The goal of using data standardization protocols is to define for instance naming 
conventions, formats and structures to then be used across the systems to maintain a 
uniform and consistent flow of data.  
An example of data standardization protocols could be a set of rules about how new items 
are entered in a catalogue by first typing the colour of the item and then followed by the 
serial number. If implemented correctly the data standardization protocols should give 
structure and order towards your quality of data with consistency in mind.  
Real-time data synchronization 
Lastly, real-time data synchronization is another way to uphold data consistency. Real-time 
data synchronization is a continuous exchange of data between databases or systems. By 
using real-time data synchronization, you ensure that changes in one system are almost 
immediately updated in the other connected systems. With these near real-time updates 
between systems every system that is connected is up to date without the need to check or 
duplicate data from one system to another. With the use of real-time data synchronization, 
the chance for human error is also reduced which furthermore improves the quality of your 
data. 
15 | P a g e  
 
An example of real-time data synchronization would be a shared excel document where 
multiple people are working on at the same time. Whenever a person or user changes 
anything in the excel document, this is immediately updated in the document across the 
systems that are connected to this document. (Teja, 2025) 
Data Timeliness  
Data Timeliness is data that is readily available when the time has come to use it. This 
dimension focuses on the relevance of the data at a certain period. If data is not available in 
the time window that it is needed, decisions-making may not be possible and opportunities 
could be missed. Therefore, an example for a metric for timeliness is time variance.  
Real-World Example: 
In April 1998 the 77-year-old Ann Prazniak was found dead in her apartment. During the 
investigation Chalaka Young her fingerprints were found in the apartment however she 
denied knowing anything about the murder. She later blamed Bryan Hooper Sr. for the 
murder of Ann Prazniak. According to her statement she was coerced by Bryan to help 
Bryan hide the body. Bryan confessed to being in the apartment however denied being 
involved with the murder that took place.  
The false testimony from Young was further backed by four other witnesses and that led to 
Bryan having to serve a life sentence for murder. After having served 27 years in prison, 
Young confessed because of a guilty conscious to having murdered Ann Prazniak. As Young 
was the key witness in the murder trial, she made sure that at the time Bryan was 
sentenced for murder. Due to her confession 27 years later Bryan his innocence has been 
proven, and he has been released from prison.  
As talked about in the example above, timeliness especially for crucial data or information 
plays a vital role in the quality of data. Due to the missing data, which was the confession 
by Young, an innocent man was wrongfully imprisoned for a crime that he did not commit. 
Timing and readily available data are essential for a good quality of data as decisions must 
be made based on the data that is available at that moment in time. (Pollina, 2025) 
 
How to Prevent Timeliness Issues: 
 Real-time data processing 
Real-time data processing is the use of near real-time processing of data to make decisions 
quickly based on the latest available data. Essentially data is collected, processed and 
analysed as it is being generated. With this prevention method you have near real-time 
updates on the latest data that is already processed as well.  
For certain jobs such as broker on a stock market real-time data processing is essential to 
profit from the market, especially if a trained bot or AI is used to make the trades because 
they need the real-time data processing to decide to either buy or sell a certain stock that 
they were trained to trade. (Richman, 2025) 
16 | P a g e  
 
 
Automated data refresh cycles 
As the name suggests for this prevention method the data is automatically refreshed based 
on time cycles. The data refresh cycle is updating or replacing data to reflect the newest 
available data. By using an automated data refresh cycle, you ensure that your data is 
refreshed automatically at a certain interval. Based on how often you let your data refresh 
you keep your data in accordance with data timeliness. Also, by using the automation you 
reduce the risk of human error when it comes to quality of the data.  
An example of automated data refresh cycles could be measuring the temperature of a 
certain area so that you can either make calculations based on the data or use the newest 
data that is available within your data refresh cycle (Kyvos Insights, 2025). 
Data retention policies 
Lastly data retention policies can be a way to make sure that your data is not outdated and 
leading to the dataset being incorrect due to the timeliness of the new data. Data retention 
policies focus on what must happen with data that has to be stored or archived but data 
retention policies also decide when this happens and for how long. If the time that has been 
decided for the retention period has passed, this data can then be deleted or again moved 
to another archive or storage.  
While data retention policies more focus on outdated data that is not relevant anymore, it is 
a rather interesting prevention method for data timeliness. Because data retention policies 
deal with outdated data and not the newest, it gives the opportunity to make sure that your 
dataset is not being overcrowded with outdated data that consequently could influence the 
decision making. Data retention policies are therefore still an important part of data 
timeliness as it makes sure your data is of good quality by removing and possibly archiving 
data that is no longer relevant to the current data. If this data would be immediately 
deleted, you risk the chance of losing data that may be beneficial towards other projects or 
for future references. (Data Retention Policy Overview: What It Is + Examples, n.d.) 
 
Data Reliability 
Data reliability refers to a degree if data can be trusted or not. Trusted is here in a sense 
of accurate, consistent, and dependable over time. This dimension focuses on whether the 
data is free from errors, bias, or manipulation. It originates from trustworthy sources 
(Talend, n.d.).  
Real-World Example 
A well-known example is the wrongful conviction of Bryan Hooper Sr. for the murder of 
Ann Prazniak in 1998. During the investigation, Chalaka Young provided testimony 
claiming that Hooper coerced her into helping hide Prazniak’s body. Although Hooper 
17 | P a g e  
 
admitted to being present at the apartment, he denied involvement in the murder. Among 
those who had reportedly entered the apartment were Chalaka Young (then nicknamed 
“Shay”) and Bryan Hooper (then nicknamed “Brome”). Police found Ms. Young’s 
fingerprints on pieces of tape stuck to the floor of the apartment similar to tape removed 
from Ms. Prazniak’s body. 
Bryan’s fingerprints were found on two sandwich baggies and a beer can in the living 
room but, unlike Ms. Young, Bryan’s prints were not found on any objects with a direct 
link to Ms. Prazniak’s murder. Bryan admitted to having been in the apartment, but 
denied involvement in or knowledge about Ms. Prazniak’s death. (Great North Innocence 
Project, 2025) 
This case demonstrates how unreliable data, can be with false testimony. The data appear 
consistent, but its lack of truthfulness resulted in wrongful conviction. 
This shows that reliability plays a vital role in data quality. If data is incorrect or biased it 
cannot be trusted, regardless how complete it may appear. 
 
3.2. Data quality report of the data 
In this sub-section we will discuss the quality of the provided dataset 
“hogwards_students_data_V2”. We will discuss how certain issues were identified, 
which could be corrected and prevented in the future. The dataset itself has not changed 
in the process; all these improvements are theoretical. 
First, we assess what the dataset holds, we can see that the dataset holds 46 columns of 
personal information for certain students. These columns include personal things like 
names, birthdays, and BloodStatus, whereas it also includes more academic information 
such as classes and grades. Now that we have a broad perspective of what the data is 
about and what kind of data is included in this dataset, we can go over the quality of the 
data. 
In the report we considered these data quality components to see if the data is: 
Accessible, Accurate, Complete, Consistent, Defined, Relevant, Reliable, and Timely. 
We will go over each one of the components and explain the situation within the dataset. 
Accessibility 
The dataset is given in an excel format, if we consider it being given in an CSV format, 
we can say that it is accessible for analyzing. We can see that all the names are clearly 
labeled and that the data is organized in tabular form. What we can see is that we miss 
metadata for the data, this could cause unclarity. Some columns like grade-related fields 
18 | P a g e  
 
and specialization categories could use explanation since the meaning could be 
interpreted in a different way. 
We could prevent this by providing standard documentation that defines each column and 
data type.  
Accuracy 
We observe that the age column contains very high and low ages, which don’t align with 
the birthday entries. We found these by reviewing the minimum and maximum values in 
the age column. This indicates that the data entries or calculations are wrong. We see 
ages such as -7 and 330, which all look very unlikely. 
We could resolve these issues by implementing rules for age ranges and cross-checking 
the age against the date of birth. This could improve further accuracy, and it could 
prevent further entry errors. 
Completeness 
The dataset contains a lot of missing values across different columns; we found these by 
identifying the empty entries per column. For example, house is missing for a small 
number of students, while QuidditchPosition and MagicalPetType have a lot of missing 
entries. This could indicate a few things, either the data was optional without being 
declared as such or the data was not consistently collected. 
We can identify these missing values by empty entries per column. 
A Possibility to prevent these missing values are enforcing required fields and adding 
checks for incomplete records, this could improve the completeness of the dataset. 
Consistency 
We can find inconsistencies in the dataset within the categorical values. The Birthday 
column has two different types of formatting, dd-mm-yyyy & dd/mm/yyyy. These issues 
were identified by going through the dataset by manual inspection. 
By standardizing formats and values, we could correct these inconsistencies, for future 
prevention we must use predefining formats and vocabularies when entering the data. 
Definition 
While all the columns have reasonable names, we still miss descriptions for all fields. 
Without these definitions, it is unclear what the values mean.  
We could prevent this by adding clear data definitions in a dictionary or README file. 
19 | P a g e  
 
Relevance 
Most columns in the dataset are relevant for analyzing student academic performances. 
However, there are some columns that contribute limited information and value due to 
missing data that is relevant for context. 
Reliability 
Because there are a lot of accuracy and consistency issues in this dataset, the reliability of 
the dataset is heavily reduced. For example, there are entries where a student scores 100 
and still fails.  
By introducing standardized data collection procedures and validation checks, it would 
heavily improve the reliability of the dataset itself. 
Timeliness 
Lasty, the dataset does not indicate when the data is updated. Some birthday-age 
combinations indicate that there is outdated or inconsistent information. We could 
improve this by including timestamps for the creation and updates. This would improve 
timeliness. 
Based on all these issues found in the dataset, the team proposed theoretical 
improvements such as rules, standardizing formats, mandatory fields, and regular checks. 
These proposed solutions should prevent the dataset from becoming inconsistent and 
relevant. 
  
20 | P a g e  
 
4. How can Hogwarts become data driven 
In this chapter we will discuss how we as a team think that Hogwarts has become data 
driven. We will discuss things like vision, goals, steps, challenges and risks, solutions, 
pros and cons, timeline, resource allocation, and metrics for success. 
4.1. Vision and objectives 
Why does Hogwarts want to become data driven? Professor McGonagall wants to 
become data driven so Hogwarts can keep the status as a premier magical institution in a 
modernized world.  
The objectives that were given are: 
• Enhance Student Success: By analyzing student grades, interests, and 
extracurricular performance, Hogwarts can better support students’ academic and 
magical growth.  
• Improve Safety and Well-being: Understanding trends in accidents, hospital wing 
visits, and mental health scores can help the school proactively support students’ 
safety and mental well-being. 
• Optimize Resources and Curricula: Data insights into popular courses, favorite 
magical subjects, and student specializations can help Hogwarts allocate resources 
more effectively, offering courses tailored to students’ needs and interests. 
We also came up with a few more objectives of our own: 
• Early risk-student detection: by analyzing historical student data, we investigate 
grade patterns and attendance records to identify risk of failing or dropping out. 
• Fairness and equality: by monitoring outcomes from different houses, blood types 
and specializations we want to make sure that there is equal and fair treatment for 
all individuals. 
• Talent discovery: by identifying students with exceptional high strengths, we aim 
to guide them towards suitable training and specializations. 
4.2. Data driven strategy for Hogwarts 
For Hogwarts to achieve the set goals, they must adopt certain data driven strategies. 
These strategies integrate data into decision-making processes, where there are 
organizational cultures and daily operations. The whole of this sub-chapter is written 
based on all the concepts that were discussed in chapter 2. 
Data driven decision making 
The first concept we will cover is data driven decision making. Hogwarts should use 
student and institutional data as input for decision-making. All the academic data should 
21 | P a g e  
 
be analyzed for different purposes such as assessing teacher performances and student 
progress. Where you normally rely on intuition and traditions, you will now make 
changes based on the data. Changes in the school curriculum, student support or even 
academic inventions can be improved based on data driven decision-making. 
For one of the objectives, trends or failing grades should trigger early attention and 
interventions for the possible at-risk students. This will also improve possible dropout 
rates and student success. 
Data driven culture 
As for the culture in Hogwarts, it must slightly change because a data driven strategy will 
only succeed in the right data driven environment. Discussions and proposals should be 
encouraged to base them on data insights. This means that Hogwarts needs to strive 
towards making data open for their staff. This change also includes regular meetings or 
lectures to lecture the staff on the data itself, what it means and what data there is. The 
privacy rules considered by GDPR are also explained in those lectures.  
To achieve such a change, there must be a lot of commitment from the higher ups. 
Headmasters and the head of houses should be informed to promote this change for the 
greater good of the students. Also, collaborations with data specialists are encouraged, 
this ensures that the insights are combined with magical expertise. 
Data Literacy 
For using the data correctly, Hogwarts needs to invest in data literacy. Data literacy 
training must be implemented for the staff so that there is a mutual understanding of the 
data and that it is possible for them to ask relevant questions with correct insights. This 
does not require a high technical understanding of the data but more basic data 
understanding of the concepts. 
Improving these points will reduce the risk of misinterpreting data and each other. The 
risk of misinterpreting grading scales or drawing incorrect conclusions can lead to big 
errors. This addresses the data quality challenges mentioned in chapter 3 
Data as a Strategic Asset 
Treating data and students as a strategic asset sounds very objectifying but it is what 
Hogwarts needs to do. Ensuring high data quality, proper data governance, and securing 
data storage is essential for this. There should also be clear ownership of the data, and the 
responsibilities should be assigned for maintaining the data, 
By making sure that there are validation rules, Hogwarts can ensure that the data is 
reliable and trustworthy. This makes the big foundation for data driven initiatives. 
22 | P a g e  
 
Actionable insights 
Collecting and analyzing data alone is not sufficient for data driving cooperations. 
Hogwarts must translate the data into concrete actions from which they can build from. 
Hogwarts needs to focus on generating actionable insights that directly support the 
objective is crucial. Identifying underperforming courses can lead to curriculum 
improvement, for example. 
To support this action, we can create dashboards with visual summary reports. This is 
needed by stakeholders, so we can visually show the results. This also ensures that all 
parties can quickly understand findings. 
Summary 
By integrating, improving, and adjusting topics like data driven decision-making, 
improving data literacy, treating data as a strategic asset, and actionable insights, 
Hogwarts can successfully move towards becoming data driven. The strategy that we laid 
down should provide a foundation for Hogwarts to become data driven and it should 
prepare the school for addressing challenges in the long run. 
4.3. Implementation steps 
To transition towards a data driven institution, Hogwarts needs to follow certain steps. 
These steps focus on building a strong foundation before advancing into a more in-depth 
and complex data-driven practice. 
We follow the following steps in order: First we centralize and secure data – then we 
improve data quality and governance – following it up by establishing data governance 
and policies – further we develop analytical tools and dashboards – then we train staff 
and promote data literacy – and lastly, we integrate data into decision-making processes. 
Step 1: Hogwarts needs to centralize and secure data in a place where all data is stored, 
this could be in AWS cloud for example. The data includes performance, enrollments and 
health data. We need to ensure that all data is consistent and accessible based on the 
GDPR regulations 
Step 2: before moving on with the data that is gathered from the students, Hogwarts 
needs to address the quality issues that we discussed earlier in chapter 3. They should 
implement rules, standardizing formats and mandatory fields. The ownership of the data 
should be clear, with everyone assigned roles responsible for maintaining data, 
Step 3: following this up we Hogwarts needs to define who can access the data. They 
need to check who, for what purpose, and which conditions. This ensures that the 
governance is aligned with the GDPR rules and that it protects the sensitive student data 
stored in the “cloud”.  
23 | P a g e  
 
Step 4: once everything is cleaned, standardized, and the governance is settled, we start 
with developing analytics tools like a visual dashboard. These tools should provide 
insight into the findings from the student data. Everyone related to this data should now 
have a clear insight into performance, safety and resource utilization in a clear and 
understandable way.  
Step 5: then when everything is set-up, Hogwarts starts training and promoting the data 
driven decision making. Integrating lectures about data literacy among teachers and 
letting heads of the houses promote the culture will make sure that the culture within the 
school adapts rapidly. 
Step 6: Lastly, Hogwarts needs to embed the data driven practices into the formal 
processes. Including this into curriculum planning, student support and strategic decisions 
will boost the accuracy and performance of the institution itself. By utilizing the data, 
Hogwarts ensures that data driven decision making becomes part of its organizational 
culture. 
4.4. Challenges, risks, and trade-offs 
Becoming data driven comes with its own risks and challenges. In this sub-chapter we 
will discuss the challenges and risks during the transition of Hogwarts. 
Cultural resistance 
One of the most common challenges is the cultural risks. Going from what you are used 
to to something completely new is always a challenge. There could be resistance from 
staff who like to be traditional and keep hold of their traditional experience-based 
decision-making. To avoid this risk, data should be explained as a tool to help, not to 
replace. 
Data quality risks 
As we discussed in chapter 3, poor data quality can lead to insights that are misleading. If 
the data is inaccurate or incomplete, decisions are based on unreliable data. Therefore, 
improving the quality is critical and an ongoing responsibility. 
Privacy concerns 
Then there is always the privacy concern. Hogwarts will handle very sensitive data so 
ensuring this data is safe is critical. Strong policies and access controls should lead to 
migrating risks. 
Resource constraints 
Implementing those systems requires a lot of money and investment in training and 
personnel Hogwarts must balance the costs to support the transition. A phased 
24 | P a g e  
 
implementation helps manage the resource constraints and ensures long-term 
sustainability.  
4.5. Timeline and phases 
Transitioning into a data driven institution isn’t done in a day. The transition takes time; 
Hogwarts should implement clearly defined phases to make sure that the transition goes 
smoothly, ensuring long-term success. We created three phases where we cover long-, 
short-, and medium-term phases. 
Short-term phase: 
For a short-term phase we ensure that there is a strong foundation quickly. Some of the 
key activities are centralizing student and academic data into a secure system. Then 
defining data governance roles and responsibilities, later we introduce basic data 
validation rules and formats and lastly, we create documentation.  Here we prioritize data 
quality, governance, and compliance. 
Medium-term phase: 
Once the foundation is set, we move on to the capabilities for Hogwarts. Then we can 
develop dashboards and reports for staff, implementing early warning systems for at risk 
students. Then Hogwarts provides data literacy training for teachers and staff. And lastly, 
we integrate data insights into the curriculum planning and student support. 
 
Long-term phase: 
In the last phase Hogwarts can leverage the analytics. They use predictive analytics to 
support planning. They can use monitoring systems, checking for fairness, equity, and 
student outcomes. 
This last phase ensures that there is sustainable and continuous improvement. 
4.6.  Resource allocation 
Hogwarts must ensure that allocation of resources is appropriate across all people, 
technology and training. They must ensure that the resources are aligned with their 
priorities. 
We divide it into three resources: human-, technological, - and financial resources. 
Human resources: 
• Appointment of data governance roles 
• Collaboration between staff and data specialists 
• Allocation of time for teachers to participate in training 
25 | P a g e  
 
Technological resources: 
• Securing databases for data storage 
• Analytical tools for reporting and dashboards 
• Data security 
Financial resources: 
• Investment in software 
• Budget allocation for ongoing system maintenance 
By allocating this resource strategically, Hogwarts can ensure that data driven initiatives 
are effective. 
4.7. Metrics of success 
To finally evaluate the success of the data driven strategy, Hogwarts must define key 
performance indicators (KPIs).  
For data quality metrics Hogwarts looks at reduction of missing values, improvement in 
data accuracy, and consistency in data formats and grading scales. 
For academic performance metrics Hogwarts looks at improvement in student passing 
rates, reduction in the number of at-risk students, and improvement in alignment between 
students’ strengths and specializations. 
For operational metrics Hogwarts looks at the increased se of dashboards and data 
reports, faster response time to academic concerns, and more efficient allocation of 
resources based on insights. 
Lastly, Hogwarts looks at compliance and trust. Checking the successful GDPR 
compliance audits, reduction in data incidents, and increased staff confidence in using 
data. 
4.8. Summary 
We can see that defining a clear strategy and plan, considering resource allocation and 
success metrics, ensures that Hogwarts can successfully transition to a data driving 
institution. This approach makes sure that practices are ethical, effective, and aligned 
with the mission. Making sure Hogwarts is a modern and forward-thinking institution. 
   
26 | P a g e  
 
 
5. Conclusion 
Joeri Harreman 
As Hogwarts transforms into a data driven institution, there are ethical considerations to 
be made. I considered three ethical concerns I think are important. Inclusivity and Fair 
Representation, Faculty and Student Autonomy, and Data Accuracy and Algorithmic 
Bias 
Inclusivity and Fair Representation 
One of the bigger challenges is fair representation, making sure that regardless of your 
blood type, house or magical background you are treated fairly is very important. The 
decision-making process should not include bias, to make sure that this doesn’t happen 
Hogwarts must ensure that the data is collected in a way that is accurate for all students. 
Making sure that there is no favorite group, preventing data gaps that might favor one 
group over another. 
Faculty and Student Autonomy 
Data can improve learning efficiency, but it also risks undermining the autonomy of 
faculty and students. Students may feel constant tracking and monitoring where teachers 
fear that their engagement is purely based on numbers. To make sure this doesn’t happen, 
headmaster needs to make sure that the tool is jus as a support not as replacement. And 
that it’s a guidance for students and not monitoring. 
Data Accuracy and Algorithmic Bias 
With incomplete data, there could be an algorithmic bias without us knowing. Ensuring 
that there is complete data is one of the most important things. disadvantaging students 
based on house stereotypes or outdated academic performance trends.is one of the 
possible outcomes of the algorithmic bias. Making sure this doesn’t happen Hogwarts 
needs to implement a robust data validation system that ensures all incoming data is 
accurate. 
Conclusion 
The ethical considerations within the transition of Hogwarts are complex, but after 
writing a report like this it is clear and very manageable. Ensuring that there is inclusive 
data representation and addressing data accuracy risks are essential towards an ethical 
data strategy. By implementing fair policies Hogwarts can become successful and 
integrate data driven decision making without compromising ethical values. 
 
27 | P a g e  
 
Lars de Bruijne 
The Case for a Data-Driven Strategy at Hogwarts 
I believe that adopting a data-driven strategy at Hogwarts offers the potential for 
improving resource allocation, decision-making, and overall student and faculty success. 
In my opinion, by leveraging insights derived from data analysis, Hogwarts can better 
understand the needs of its community, optimize class schedules, and enhance student 
outcomes. However, I think this transformation must be guided by a strong ethical 
framework to ensure that the use of data upholds privacy, inclusivity, and transparency. 
Ensuring Privacy and Compliance 
The centralized data repository, while efficient, demands strict adherence to privacy 
standards like GDPR to safeguard sensitive information. For example, the personalized 
learning and faculty performance dashboards should only present data relevant to the 
context and ensure that individuals retain control over their personal information. This 
approach, in my opinion, minimizes risks while maintaining the integrity of the data-
driven strategy. 
Emphasizing Transparency 
From my perspective, transparency in how data is collected, analysed, and used is 
critical. I think this ensures that decisions are not only data-informed but also equitable 
and unbiased. Clear communication about the purpose and impact of data usage, will 
build trust among students, faculty, and parents, ensuring their support for these 
initiatives. 
Overcoming Challenges with Ethical Solutions 
Addressing challenges such as privacy concerns, faculty apprehension, and data accuracy 
requires a solution-oriented approach. I believe that by proactively identifying and 
mitigating these issues, Hogwarts can establish a model where data serves as a tool for 
empowerment rather than surveillance. Continuous monitoring and feedback loops, in my 
view, will further enhance the system’s effectiveness and ethical alignment. 
Balancing Tradition and Innovation 
I think that by integrating ethical considerations with data-driven strategies, Hogwarts 
can balance its rich traditions with innovative practices. This alignment ensures that the 
magical community thrives in a sustainable, inclusive, and student-centred future. The 
goal, I believe, is not only to modernize Hogwarts but to create a harmonious 
environment where tradition and progress coexist seamlessly. 
 
28 | P a g e  
 
6. References 
1. Bodenstein, C. (2024, November 7). Data validation: How to check data 
completeness. 
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/data-validation-how-check-completeness-christoph-
bodenstein-2pzpf 
2. Bulger, M., Taylor, G., Schroeder, R., & Oxford Internet Institute. (2014). Data-
Driven Business Models: Challenges and Opportunities of Big Data. In Executive 
Summary. 
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/old-
docs/nemode_business_models_for_bigdata_2014_oxford.pdf 
3. ClearPoint Strategy. (2019, November 25). 7 important characteristics of data 
quality & metrics to track. ClearPoint Strategy. 
https://www.clearpointstrategy.com/blog/data-quality-
metrics#:~:text=What%20are%20data%20quality%20dimensions,fit%20for%20its%
20intended%20use 
4. Corporate Finance Institute. (2023, October 5). Data assets. 
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/business-intelligence/data-assets/ 
5. Data literacy explained: Definition, importance, examples, and more. (n.d.). 
Tableau. 
https://www.tableau.com/data-insights/data-literacy/what-is#definition 
6. Data Quality Feature Comparison Guide – ADS. (n.d.). 
https://www.ovaledge.com/data-quality-feature-comparison-guide-lp 
7. Data Retention Policy Overview: What it is + examples. (n.d.). Druva. 
https://www.druva.com/glossary/what-is-a-data-retention-policy-definition-and-
related-faqs 
8. DataScientest. (2023, October 30). Data driven: Definition, benefits and methods. 
https://datascientest.com/en/data-driven-definition-benefits-and-methods 
9. Davenport, T. H., & Harris, J. G. (2017). Competing on analytics: The new science 
of winning. Harvard Business Review Press. 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/7327312_Competing_on_Analytics 
10. Foote, K. D. (2024, April 24). Why is a data-driven culture important? 
DATAVERSITY. 
https://www.dataversity.net/why-is-a-data-driven-culture-important/ 
11. GoPractice. (2022, August 23). Pros and cons of a data-driven culture. GoPractice. 
https://gopractice.io/skills/data-driven-culture-pros-and-cons/ 
12. Great North Innocence Project. (2025, December 3). Bryan Hooper, Sr. - Great 
North Innocence Project https://www.greatnorthinnocenceproject.org/our-
clients/bryan-hooper-sr/  
13. Hossain, Q., Yasmin, F., Biswas, T. R., & Asha, N. B. (2024). Data-Driven 
Business Strategies: A comparative analysis of data science techniques in decision-
making. Scholars Journal of Economics Business and Management, 11(09), 257–263. 
https://doi.org/10.36347/sjebm.2024.v11i09.002 
14. Integrate.Io. (2025, July 21). What are data-driven insights & how do you uncover 
them? Integrate.io. 
https://www.integrate.io/blog/what-are-data-driven-insights/ 
29 | P a g e  
 
15. Kyvos Insights. (2025, October 21). What is data refresh and its types? 
https://www.kyvosinsights.com/glossary/data-refresh/ 
16. McAfee, A., & Brynjolfsson, E. (2024, February 29). Big data: The management 
revolution. Harvard Business Review. 
https://hbr.org/2012/10/big-data-the-management-revolution 
17. Mucci, T. (2025, July 22). Data driven decision making: What is data driven. IBM. 
https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/data-driven-decision-making 
18. Pollina, R. (2025, September 5). Wrongfully convicted Minnesota dad Bryan Hooper 
Sr. is freed from jail after 27 years as star witness confesses to murder. New York 
Post. 
https://nypost.com/2025/09/05/us-news/wrongfully-convicted-minnesota-dad-bryan-
hooper-sr-is-freed-from-jail-after-27-years-as-star-witness-confesses-to-murder/ 
19. Porter, A. (2025, December 23). 7 data quality dimensions you should know. BigID. 
https://bigid.com/blog/7-data-quality-dimensions-you-should-know/ 
20. PostNL zegt “pakket bezorgd”, maar jij hebt niks ontvangen: hoe kan dat? 
(2024, December 19). RTL.nl. 
https://www.rtl.nl/nieuws/economie/artikel/5485938/postnl-zegt-pakket-bezorgd-
maar-jij-hebt-niks-ontvangen-hoe-kan-dat 
21. Reported impact snapshot | Gaza Strip (18 June 2025). (2025, June 18). United 
Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs – Occupied Palestinian 
Territory. 
https://www.ochaopt.org/content/reported-impact-snapshot-gaza-strip-18-june-2025 
22. Richman, J. (2025, August 7). What is real-time processing (In-depth guide for 
beginners). Estuary. 
https://estuary.dev/blog/what-is-real-time-processing/ 
23. SalesPlay. (2025, September 11). Data quality improvement: Enrichment best 
practices. MarketsandMarkets SalesPlay. 
https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/AI-sales/data-quality-improvement-enrichment-
best-practices 
24. Sartor, G., Lagioia, F., Panel for the Future of Science and Technology, 
European Parliamentary Research Service, & Scientific Foresight Unit (STOA). 
(2020). The impact of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on artificial 
intelligence. STOA (p. PE 641.530) [Report]. 
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/STUD/2020/641530/EPRS_STU(20
20)641530_EN.pdf 
25. Sartor, G., Lagioia, F., Panel for the Future of Science and Technology, 
European Parliamentary Research Service, & Scientific Foresight Unit (STOA). 
(2020b). The impact of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on artificial 
intelligence. STOA (p. PE 641.530) [Report]. 
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/STUD/2020/641530/EPRS_STU(20
20)641530_EN.pdf 
26. Talend. (n.d.). What is Data Reliability? Definition & Assessment Guide. Talend - a 
Leader in Data Integration & Data Integrity. 
https://www.talend.com/resources/what-is-data-reliability/  
30 | P a g e  
 
27. Teja. (2025, May 27). Why real-time data synchronization matters more than ever. 
Exalate. 
https://exalate.com/blog/real-time-data-synchronization/ 
28. Varian, H. (2018). Artificial intelligence, economics, and industrial organization. 
NBER Working Paper Series (No. 24839). 
https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w24839/w24839.pdf 
29. Wagenheim, M. (2025, June 23). At highest level, UN comfortable with wildly 
inconsistent Gaza data. JNS.org. 
https://www.jns.org/at-highest-level-un-comfortable-with-wildly-inconsistent-gaza-
data/ 
30. Waller, D. (2020, February 6). 10 steps to creating a data-driven culture. Harvard 
Business Review. 
https://hbr.org/2020/02/10-steps-to-creating-a-data-driven-culture 
31. Yasmina. (2025, January 20). The importance of data-driven decision-making. 
Beyond by Esade. 
https://www.esade.edu/beyond/en/the-importance-of-data-driven-decision-making/ 
32. Zurhake, S., & Zurhake, S. (2025, March 19). Artsen zien dagelijks gevaar voor 
patiëntveiligheid door ICT-problemen. NOS. 
https://nos.nl/artikel/2560282-artsen-zien-dagelijks-gevaar-voor-patientveiligheid-
door-ict-problemen